Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a computer language programmers use to develop software programs,
scripts, or other sets of instructions for computers to execute.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.





What is IDE?
A.An integrated development environment (IDE) is software for building applications that
combines common developer tools into a single GUI.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Visual Studio.
  IntelliJ IDEA.
  Eclipse.
  Xcode.
  AWS Cloud9.
  NetBeans.
  Amazon Corretto.
  Oracle JDeveloper.



Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class?
A.A class — in the context of Java — is a template used to create objects and to define object data types and methods.

What is object?
A.Objects have states and behaviors.Local variables − Variables defined inside methods,
constructors or blocks are called local variables.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.In computer programming, an entry point is a point in a program where the execution of a program begins,
and where the program has access to command line arguments.

Why main is static?
A.The main() method is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class.
This also saves the unnecessary wastage of memory which would have been used by
the object declared only for calling the main() method by the JVM.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy, which is present in java

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that Path is set for java tools in java programs like java and javac,
which are used to compile your code.Whereas CLASSPATH is used by System or Application class loader to locate and
load compile Java bytecodes stored in the .

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. An abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override.
An interface only allows you to define functionality, not implement it.
And whereas a class can extend only one abstract class,
it can take advantage of multiple interfaces.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class
 (interface is not even considered as a class.)
What you can do is to implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course, must not be abstract.

what is Access Specifier?
A.Java provides entities called “Access Modifiers or access specifiers”
that help us to restrict the scope or visibility of a package,
class, constructor, methods, variables, or other data members.
These access modifiers are also called “Visibility Specifiers”.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.The main ideas behind Java's Object-Oriented Programming, OOP concepts include abstraction,
encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism. Basically, Java OOP concepts let us create working methods and variables,
then re-use all or part of them without compromising security.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.Java compiler imports java. lang package internally by default.
It provides the fundamental classes that are necessary to design a basic Java program. The important classes are Object,
which is the root of the class hierarchy, and Class, instances of which represent classes at run time.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface,
which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
Each time you use an app like Facebook, send an instant message, or check the weather on your phone,
you’re using an API.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.Java supports multiple inheritance through interfaces only.
A class can implement any number of interfaces but can extend only one class.
Multiple inheritance is not supported because it leads to deadly diamond problem.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.Overriding occurs when two methods have the same method name and parameters.
One of the methods is in the parent class, and the other is in the child class.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions.
Put the code you want to run in the try block, and any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by
one or more catch blocks.This method will catch any type of Java exceptions that get thrown.
This is the simplest mechanism for handling exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods,
blocks and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.
Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.Java final keyword is a non-access specifier that is used to restrict a class, variable, and method.
If we initialize a variable with the final keyword, then we cannot modify its value. If we declare a method as final,
then it cannot be overridden by any subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.Final is a keyword and is used as access modifier in Java. Finally is a block in Java used for Exception Handling.
Finalize is a method in Java used for Garbage Collection. Application.

What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor in Java is similar to a method that is invoked when an object of the class is created.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.All classes have at least one constructor. If a class does not explicitly declare any,
the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A."this" keyword in Java is a reference variable that refers to the current object of a method or a constructor.
The main purpose of using this keyword in Java is to remove the confusion between class attributes and parameters
that have same names.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
Whenever you create the instance of subclass, an instance of parent class is created implicitly
which is referred by super reference variable. 1. super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.Java Virtual Machine, or JVM, loads, verifies and executes Java bytecode. It is known as the interpreter or
the core of Java programming language because it executes Java programming.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.In Java, the main point here is that the JVM depends on the operating system – so if you are running Mac OS X you will
have a different JVM than if you are running Windows or some other operating system.

What version of java are you using?
A.The Java version can be found in the Java Control Panel. Under the General tab in the Java Control Panel,
the version is available through the About section. A dialog appears (after clicking About) showing the Java version.

What is JAR stand for ?
A.JAR stands for Java ARchive. It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and
is used for aggregating many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.JDK is a software development kit whereas JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run,
whereas JVM is an environment for executing bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JDK is a software development environment used for making applets and Java applications.
The full form of JDK is Java Development Kit. Java developers can use it on Windows, macOS, Solaris, and Linux.
JDK helps them to code and run Java programs. It is possible to install more than one

What is compile time and run time?
A.Compile-time and Runtime are the two programming terms used in the software development.
Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code while the run time is
the time at which the executable code is started running.
Both the compile-time and runtime refer to different types of error.

What is heap?
A.Heaps are advanced data structures that are useful for specific use-cases such as sorting and implementing
priority queues.

How java manage it's memory?
A.Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread-safe and
synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not. That's why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
A.A Singleton class in Java allows only one instance to be created and provides global access to all other classes through this single object or instance.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory. This mechanism is used to persist the object.


when to use transient variable in java?
A.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.

What is Enum?
A.

What is Iterator?
A.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.

What is JIT stands for?
A.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.

what is multithreading in java?
A.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.

What is Framework?
A. A framework is a structure that you can build software on. It serves as a foundation,
so you're not starting entirely from scratch.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.7 Best Testing Frameworks for Java Developers · 1. Selenium · 2. Serenity · 3. JUnit · 4. TestNG ·
5. Cucumber · 6. JBehave · 7. Mockito.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.Both Testng and Junit are Testing framework used for Unit Testing. TestNG is similar to JUnit.
Few more functionalities are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.A project dependency is a task that relies on the completion of a different task.
This article breaks down key terms associated with dependencies and
the different kinds of dependencies you may see in project management.

what is dependency injection in java?
A.Dependency Injection (DI) is a design pattern that removes the dependency from the programming code so that it can be easy to manage and test the application.
Dependency Injection makes our programming code loosely coupled.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.Connecting a method call to the method body is known as binding.

  There are two types of binding

  Static Binding (also known as Early Binding).
  Dynamic Binding (also known as Late Binding).









